---
caption: #what displays in the portfolio grid:
  title: in2IN
  subtitle: Leveraging individual Information to Generate Human Interactions
  thumbnail: assets/img/portfolio/in2IN.jpg
  
#what displays when the item is clicked:
title: in2IN
subtitle: Leveraging individual Information to Generate Human Interactions
image: assets/img/portfolio/in2IN_abstract.jpg #main image, can be a link or a file in assets/img/portfolio
alt: in2IN

---
Generating human-human motion interactions conditioned on textual descriptions is a very useful application in many areas such as robotics, gaming, animation, and the metaverse. Alongside this utility also comes a great difficulty in modeling the highly dimensional inter-personal dynamics. In addition, properly capturing the intra-personal diversity of interactions has a lot of challenges. Current methods generate interactions with limited diversity of intra-person dynamics due to the limitations of the available datasets and conditioning strategies. For this, we introduce [in2IN](https://pabloruizponce.github.io/in2IN/), a novel diffusion model for human-human motion generation which is conditioned not only on the textual description of the overall interaction but also on the individual descriptions of the actions performed by each person involved in the interaction. To train this model, we use a large language model to extend the InterHuman dataset with individual descriptions. As a result, in2IN achieves state-of-the-art performance in the InterHuman dataset. Furthermore, in order to increase the intra-personal diversity on the existing interaction datasets, we propose DualMDM, a model composition technique that combines the motions generated with in2IN and the motions generated by a single-person motion prior pre-trained on HumanML3D. As a result, DualMDM generates motions with higher individual diversity and improves control over the intra-person dynamics while maintaining inter-personal coherence.


<iframe src="https://pabloruizponce.github.io/in2IN/" width="100%" height="600px"></iframe>
